What Is On-Page SEO & Why Is It Important?
On-page SEO, which is sometimes called on-site SEO, is the process of tweaking a page’s content, tags,
and internal links to improve search visibility and increase traffic.
In other words, it’s a means of optimizing your website to help search engines better understand your website.

12 Essential On-Page SEO Factors
On-page SEO can be broadly divided into three categories: content, HTML, and website architecture.
We’ll look at each individually.

Content
You’ve heard it before: Content is king.
SEO without it is like a beautiful new sports car without an engine – it might look nice,
but it’s going nowhere. But, not all content is not created equal.
Here are the content factors you need to consider to maximize your on-site SEO:

1. E-A-T
One way Google weights your site is based on E-A-T, or expertise, authoritativeness, and trustworthiness.

2. Keywords
The most basic way to tell them your website’s content answers a user’s question is in the language you use.
Pages that feature the keywords used in a query, whether in the body, headings, or both,
are more likely to be relevant to the search.

3. SEO Writing
Creating the type of content that both prioritizes search engines and converts human visitors to your
site is something of an art.
Unless you’ve done it before, it can be quite challenging to write copy that reads well and still
adheres to SEO best practices.

We have an entire piece dedicated to helping you master the art, but some of the key takeaways include:
--Emphasize readability: Your content should be easily scannable, so users can quickly find the
information they’re looking for.
--Don’t overuse keywords: Also known as keyword stuffing, this technique was used in the past by
unscrupulous SEO professionals to game the system, Google takes a dim view of sites that overuse keywords.
If you’re caught doing this, your page could be demoted in SERPs or even removed altogether.
--Keep sentences and paragraphs brief: If you’ve ever clicked on a webpage only to be assaulted by an unbroken wall
of text, you know how hard it is to read lengthy pieces of copy.
Avoid driving users away by keeping your sentences and paragraphs short.
--Use subheadings: Subheads stand out because of their size, attracting attention from people who are scanning
your page. Use an ample amount in your content to guide readers down the page.
--Use bulleted lists: This may feel very meta, but bulleted lists are a good way to break
information down into easily digestible chunks. Use them whenever they make sense.


4. Visual Assets
Using images, videos, and infographics do more than making your page visually interesting to visitors.
It also gives you opportunities to boost your SEO.


5. Title Tags
This is one of those areas where it’s important to focus on the details.
On its own, this snippet of code that allows you to give a webpage a title probably isn’t going to
have you shooting up SERP rankings.
But in context with other on-page elements (like the ones discussed here), it can help you build
context and demonstrate your site’s relevancy.

6. Meta Description
Better meta descriptions give searchers a better understanding of what your page is all about,
which in turn leads to more clickthroughs. So, don’t neglect them.

7. Image Optimization
We already briefly touched on the importance of visual assets on your page, but now it’s time to look
more closely at their technical aspects.

Here are some tips to help optimize yours:
--Include SEO-friendly alt tags.
--Choose the right format and file size for fast loading.
--Customize file names instead of using something like IMG_08759.
--Ensure your images are mobile-friendly.

8. Geotagging (For Local Search)
It may be a global economy, but most business is still done at a local level. Connect with the people
in your neighborhood by optimizing your on-page local SEO.
While this is less important for mega-corporations like GMC or Pepsi, for small- and medium-sized
businesses, this is their bread and butter.

There are three main SEO tactics to consider when focusing on local traffic:
--Optimizing local listings and citations including name, address, and phone number (NAP),
website URL, and business descriptions, using third-party apps, and getting reviews.
--Optimizing your local content, including accommodating for “near me” searches, providing
location-based content, or buying a local website or blog.
--Optimizing and building links with other local businesses and organizations.

Be sure to include the name of your target location in your keywords and put them in your content wherever they fit.

9. Site Speed
A clunky, slow-loading site does more than frustrate and drive away visitors it actually hurts your search ranking too.

Search Engine Journal took a deep dive into the effect a page’s loading time has on SEO and confirmed page
speed is a ranking factor in search results.

10. Responsive Design
In 2016, mobile search volume surpassed desktop for the very first time. And in the years following,
that number has only grown.
Because more users are on mobile devices, Google followed the logical path and began to prioritize sites with responsive designs in mobile search rankings.

This mobile-friendly update only impacts search results performed on mobile devices,
and while it’s still possible to rank in these results without responsive design, Google strongly recommends
sites have a mobile version.

11. URL Structure
There was a time when URLs played a large role in SEO. Professionals would make sure their keywords were included
in web addresses to help them rank higher.
But Google, doing what Google does, changed the algorithm. And what was once so important to rankings,
now plays a much smaller role.

That’s not to say it doesn’t matter. Search engines are still including your URLs in your overall score
they just don’t hold the same prominence they once did.

However, there is evidence they play a role in a site’s initial ranking,
and some professionals believe they’re used to group pages.
What this means is, that while they shouldn’t be your top SEO priority, you don’t want to ignore them either.

12. Links
One of the best ways your website can establish expertise, authoritativeness, and trustworthiness
is through links from other reputable websites.